		       ﾉﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｻ
		       ｺ    Mine Bombers 3.11   ｺ
		       ｺ   REGISTERED FREEWARE  ｺ
		       ｺﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄｺ
		       ｺ   Skitso Productions   ｺ
		       ﾈﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｼ


    Directory:
    1.............. General instructions
      1.1............ Hardware requirements
    2.............. Game menus
      2.1............. The main menu
      2.2............. The options menu
      2.3............. The info screen
    3.............. Controls
      3.1............. Keys
    4.............. Playing the game
      4.1............. Shopping for bombs
      4.2............. The game
    5.............. Hints
    6.............. The map editor (MINEDIT)

      
1. General instructions

     MINE BOMBERS is a fun, fast paced, entertaining and
     addictive arcade style game where YOU get to blow up, kill
     and tear apart your best friend. At the same time you can also
     find and collect rare and valuable treasures from ancient mines
     deep underground. This is the REGISTERED version of MB. So it's
     against the law to copy or distribute it. THANKS FOR SUPPORTING.

     We are not responisble for any damage or problems this product may
     cause, so use at your own risk. 

  1.1 Hardware requirements

     Unfortunately Mine Bombers will not work on old and slow
     computers. The minimum requirement is a 386 processor.
     The game also features digital sound. You'll need a
     SB1/SB2/SBpro/SB16/GUS-compatible soundcard. A keyboard, a monitor and
     1-4 players are also recommended. GUS users must have the ULTRASND
     enviroment variable properly set.

2. Game menus

  2.1 The main menu

     After loading the game, and after admireing the beautiful startup
     picture you will get to the MAIN MENU. You can move up, or down by using
     the ARROW KEYS. Activate the selected icon by pressing ENTER.

     Tip: To quit the game, just push F10 (several times if necessary).

  2.2 The options menu

     In the options menu you can change some of the game settings. Do this
     by selecting the appropriate setting and adjusting it with the ARROW KEYS.

       Treasures      = The amount of treasures appearing on a random level.
       Rounds         = The amount of rounds to be played.
       Time           = The amount of time in a multiplayer game.
       Starting Cash  = The amount of cash in multiplayer game.
       Redefine Keys  = Key selections.
			(ESC to jump to the next one, F10 to quit).
       Players        = The amount of players. If you select one player
			you automatically jump into oneplayer mode.
       Speed          = How fast the game runs. The smaller the slower.
       Damage         = How much the bombs cause damage to players.
       Darkness       = Darkness on/of
       Selling        = Weapon selling on/off
       Free market    = changing prices
       Winner         = Winner by money or by seperate wins
       Load Levels    = Here you can load ready-made levels, or levels
			created with MINEDIT
       Mainmenu       = Return to the main menu. All settings will
			Automatically be saved.

  2.3 The info screen

     From the info screen you'll get the lates information on new
     weapons and technologies. Information on the makers (us).
     To quit type F10.


3. Controls

  3.1 Keys

     In the "Redefine Keys" of the Options menu you can change all the
     keys for multi- or singleplayer mode. You can also control a player
     with a joystick if you have one. When a key is asked just move the
     joystick to asked direction. If you want to define that a player
     also stops when using a joystick press F1 when STOP-button is asked
     (F2 for joystick 2) Before you can use a joystick you MUST calibrate
     it. Use the CALIBRA.EXE in the game directory to do it.

     If you have problems with joystick (e.g. the game detects a joystick
     even if you don't have one) you can disable it by giving "-nojoy" as
     a command line parameter to MB.EXE (MB.EXE -nojoy).

     During the game you don't have to hold down the keys so
     you shouldn't have any problems in multiplayer mode.
     (Some keyboards experience 'key lockout' if many keys are
     pushed down at once.)

4. Playing the game

4.1 Shopping

     The game begins in the weapons shop. Here players can get their
     favourite weapons and bombs. If there are more than two players
     the selection will be displayed twice. The cursor can be moved by
     with keys selected for individual players. Use the "drop bomb" key to
     purchase your selection and "select" key to sell it. To begin the game
     select the "LEAVE"-icon, or press the ESC key.

     By buying rockpicks/powerdrills you can increase your power permanently.
     Rockpicks/powerdrills found on a level boost your power for that level
     only.

4.2 The game

  - Multiplayer mode
     The game begins after the players leave the shop. The players
     find themselves at the far corners of the screen. You should move
     your guy around and collect as many treasures as you can in the
     limited time available. You might also try to kill the other players.
     If you are able to slaughter your opponent (before he/she slaughters you)
     you will recieve a large amount of cash. The level will end if one of
     the following options are filled:

	     1. The time runs out.
	     2. All the treasures are collected.
	     3. Less than two players survive.

     After completing a level you are automatically transported to
     the shop to purchase more bombs.

     Information on the players is displayed next to the top edge of
     the screen. The large screen shows the currently selected bomb.
     Digging power and your current cash are displayed under your name.
     A bar graph displays the players health.

     When all the rounds have been played, the winner is the player with
     the most cash or the most wins in the seperate levels.

  - Singleplayer mode

     In singleplayer mode you have to complete 15 monster-filled levels.
     In oneplayer mode you have three lives. Each level begins from the upper
     lefthand corner. Your mission is simply to find the door that leads to
     the next level. The door is a black square with grey borders. Notice that
     the location of the exit may varie from game to game. Players who excell
     get their names on the revered Hall-of-fame list. Your position on the
     list is defined by how far you get in the game.

5. Hints

     Here are some simple but useful hints:

       1.  Collect the most valuable treasures first.
       2.  Try to get as much digging power as possible.
       3.  Don't waste all your money. The player with the most
	   money at the end wins.
       4.  Remember that even the smallest bombs are sometimes
	   invaluable.
       5.  Be carefull not to blow up your treasures.
       6.  Always try to find the quickest route through rock.
	   Edges crumble easyer than normal rock.
       7.  If your opponent has collected much more treasure than you...
	   Go kamikaze.
       8.  Try to get your get your opponent to follow you. When he's
	   right behind you, drop a MINE!
       9.  First trap your opponent in urethane. Then drop a barrel of napalm
	   next to him. The urethane won't stop the napalm from advancing,
	   giving your opponent a nice tan!
       10. Try to surround your opponent with remote bombs or mines.
       11. Its better to buy a rockdrill than two large rockpicks.
       12. If your opponent is just digging up a treasure you can't get to,
	   blow it up!
       13. While escaping from napalm try to run into a large room, or
	   try to make the corridor larger. You can also try to block the
	   corridor with rocks or steel plating. (Steel plates can be
	   purchased from the shop.)

6. The mapeditor (MINEDIT)

     With MINEDITyou can edit old levels and create new ones.

     How MINEDIT works:

       You must have a mouse to use MINEDIT. Of course if your playing
       this game, you propably have one already.

       On the info bar you can see a list of objects, this is a kind
       of "palette" where you can select the object of your choice.
       You can select individual colors for both mouse buttons.

       You can also select diffirent brush types from other buttons
       situated on the info bar. The first button selects a normal brush
       for detail work. You can adjust the size of this brush from
       the adjuster located in the upper righthand corner.
       The next button selects a square brush. The thrid button
       represents a can of paint. Selecting this activates the "fill"
       option.

       Special functions:
			F2 = Mirrors the left side of the level to the right.
			F3 = Places one random treasure on to the level.
			F7 = Smaller brush.
			F8 = Larger brush.
			F9 = Clears the screen.
			 Z = Places one random treasure under the cursor.

       Warning! Obs! Huom! Achtung! Do not place too many monsters or
       especially barrels on the level. The game might slow down or even
       get really screwed up.





       Without a mouse?!?!?

       If you don't have a mouse you can get help by pressing F1.
       A short description:
		The keys 'A' - '*' select diffirent objects.
		With space you can turn 'continuous paint' on or off.
		'R' activates square draw.




			LOOK OUT FOR OUR FUTURE PRODUCTIONS!!!

